RULES:
1)Team of two members.
2)First round of unlimited time duration.
3)No using mobiles or other gadgets during the test.
5)Top 5 teams qualify for the next round based on the scores of the first round.

1)Introduced in 1993, what was Apple's first tablet computer?
A)Darwin MessagePad
B)Newton MessagePad*
C)Einstein MessagePad
D)Jobs MessagePad


2)Which gadget is referred as "Bramble" in some parts of Scotland and England?
A)IPad
B)E-book Reader
C)Blackberry*
D)IPhone


3)What is an individual speaker in a loudspeaker system called?
A)Bracket
B)Paper
C)Coil
D)Driver*


4)For a cell phone, what is another name for "smart skin"?
A)Battery
B)Camera Window
C)SIM Card
D)Faceplate


5) Quadro, Tegra, Tesla are product lines of which gadget maker?
A)NVIDIA*
B)Samsung
C)Apple
D)Sony

6)Which company would you associate with the gadget "Boxee Box"?
A)Hitachi
B)D-Link*
C)Toshiba
D)Sony


7)So-called HD sunglasses help you view the world in high definition by:
A)Making standard movies appear to be 3-D
B)Filtering the light differently*
C)Improving your vision
D)All of the above

8)Who invented flexible photographic film?
a)Linda Eastman
b)George Eastman*
C)Leonardo da Vinci
d)Louis Daguerre

9)When did the compact disc first appear on the market?
a)1955
b)1992
c)1982*
d)1989

10)Which of these is not an early computer?
a)SAGE
b)UNIVAC
c)ENIAC
d)NASA*

11)What is the hashtag (#) used for when posting Tweets to Twitter?*
a)It is used to mark keywords. This helps when searching for Tweets on particular topics.
b)It is used to indicate the username of the account from which the Tweet is being made.
c)It is used for replies or mentions, to indicate the name of another user.
d)It is used to indicate anger or annoyance. 

12)What do Google Drive, EtherPad and Zoho have in common?
a)They are all video sharing services.
b)They are all owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation.
c)They all enable several users to collaborate in creating and editing documents.*
d)None of them support mobile devices. 

13)WordPress, Typepad and Expression Engine can all be used for what? (There is more than one correct answer.)
a)Blogging.*
b)Word processing.
c)Content management.*
d)Peer-to-peer file sharing.

14)What is the difference between Slideshare and Prezi? (There is more than one correct answer.)
a)Prezi won’t work on Apple iOS devices (iPhone and iPad), Slideshare will.
b)Slideshare has better support for audio.*
c)You can upload PDF files to Prezi but not to Slideshare.
d)Prezi uses pan and zoom, Slideshare is more sequential.* 

15)Which of the following statements is true?
a)Services that use Flash won’t work on mobile devices.
b)It’s best to avoid services that use Flash because they won’t work on Apple iOS devices (e.g. iPhone and iPad).
c)If you want good compatibility with a range of mobile devices, it’s best to avoid services which use Flash.*
d)Most mobile devices support Flash.

16)The cellular phone gets is name from:
a)the division of a geographic area into cells .
b)cellular membrane technology.
c)grouping of different frequencies into cells. 
d)due to the size of the gadget and its portability.

17)Unlike CB radios, cell phones use two frequencies, one for talking and the other for listening.
a)half-duplex communication. 
b)multiple-duplex communication.
c)full-duplex communication.*
d)double duplex communication.

18)The range served by each cell phone base station is about:
a)5 square miles (13 square kilometers).
b)10 square miles (26 square kilometers).*
c)25 square miles (65 square kilometers).
d)30 square miles (77 square kilometers).

19) Your cell phone knows when you're roaming because:
a)The Mobile Telephone Switching Office (MTSO) checks your SID code in its database.*
b)The global positioning system (GPS) chip in your phone informs the cell towers of your location. 
c)The cell towers triangulate your position, and your phone's processor compares it to your service area.
d)The phone has an inbuilt chip to track your location all the time.

20) This is the science of exchanging information wirelessly over significant distances.
a. radiophonistics
b. telecommunications*
c. Marconiology


21). One of the basic challenges in cell phone technology was figuring out how to allow several callers to send information simultaneously over a single communication channel. What is this concept called?
a. synchronous signaling
b. multiplexing*
c. communication concurrence


23) When did first generation (1G) cellular services become commercially available?
a. late 1960s
b. mid 1970s
c. early 1980s*


24). In the early 1990s in North America, a second generation (2G) of cellular services began to evolve when mobile carriers like Verizon deployed CDMA to multiplex up to 64 calls per channel. What does CDMA stand for?
a. Code-Division Multiple Access*
b. Channel-Division Managed Architecture


25.) Around the same time, other mobile carriers like AT&T adopted a competing standard for multiplexing called GSM. What does GSM stand for?
a. Global System for Mobile*
b. Gateway Session Modulation


26). Which Danish mathematician originally conceived the theory of traffic engineering, a discipline that attempts to make sure the number of failed calls is as close to zero as possible?
a. Agner Erlang*
b. Ole Worm


27). To prevent a caller from thinking his connection has been lost during a long period of silence in a conversation, carriers use this type of program to generate background noise.
a. comfort noise generator*
b. fuzzing
c. interference


28). What do you call a wireless access point that improves cellular reception inside a home or office building?
a. hoot-n-holler
b. femtocell*


29). ARPU, an industry acronym for the income generated by a cell phone subscriber, is the metric a carrier uses to evaluate whether or not all revenue-generating potential has been exploited. What does ARPU stand for?
a. average revenue per user
b. acquired remittance per uplink*


30). What year was the first cell phone commercially available in the U.S.?
a. 1975
b. 1983*
c. 1991


31)Which of these wireless technologies could support users at ranges up to 30 miles?
a. WiFi
b. WiMAX*






